See http://lightspeed-php.com for tutorial, manual and reference.

LIGHTSPEED-PHP IS A MINIMALISTIC AND FAST PHP FRAMEWORK aiming to provide basic structure that helps you build your applications faster and more efficiently on solid architecture. It's designed to be small, fast, easy to understand and extend.


WHY ANOTHER FRAMEWORK?
I have used several frameworks in my time and designed a few before. While there are other great libraries out there like the Zend Framework, they are often bloated, slow and hard to understand and thus extend. Lightspeed is down to business and you can go over the whole core code of it in a coffee-break time. It still has all the main features you would expect from a framework and its structured similarly to Zend's so anyone from that background will have no problem understanding it quickly.

Every part of the system has been designed with performance in mind and caching is used internally and also provided for simple use to the user, using both APC and Memcache solutions.

It's licenced under the very permissive MIT licence so you can do pretty much anything with it.


FEATURES
Lightspeed PHP is Model-View-Controller design pattern oriented. The main tasks it solves are the following:

Bootstrap the application
Accept and understand a HTTP request
Route and dispatch this request to an appropriate controller
Execute business logic and render the results in a view
Send back the response
In addition, the core framework handles translations for both routes and page content and provides simple interfaces for accessing caches and sessions.

Thats pretty much it, the core consists of only around ten classes and around thousand lines of code gets executed to handle the request, routing, dispatching, translations, view rendering and response. It really is tiny and fast.

For additional performance boost, it has been built from ground up to play well with the wonderful PHP to C++ transformer and compiler called Hiphop-PHP by Facebook that can make a simple Lightspeed application respond to requests in under a millisecond showing where the name comes from.

If you’re into performance and scalability like me, you might want to check out my Cassandra PHP Client Library built for reliable and fast communication with the wonderful Cassandra non-relational database.


GETTING STARTED
Starting with Lightspeed PHP is easy, just download the framework and you will have a hello world application running. You may then want to check out the tutorial, that aims to teach you the core concepts to get up and running quickly. When you need specific help about some components, check out the manual explaining how to use and extend each part of the system. There is also a low-level reference generated from the source code, explaining every method.


LICENCE
Lightspeed-PHP is free open-source software licenced under the very permissive MIT licence which generally means that you can do pretty much anything you like with it.